---
layout: post
title: Sampling Random Ability Score Generation
date: 2021-07-25 11:30
category: Analysis
author: Scott Turnbull
tags: []
summary: Comparing different methods of random ability score generation in your 5th edition game.
---

Generating random ability scores has been a core part of the gaming experience since the days of Original Dungeons & Dragons.  In fact, random ability score generation was the primary official method until 3rd edition introduced the point buy system. Certinly different optional rules or houserule methods for buying of standard scores existed prior to that, but the common assumption was random generation. 

## Why Random Generation.

## Common Methods of Random Generation

* Straight 3d6:
* 3d6 7 Times, pick highest 6:
* 4d6 Drop Lowest:
* 2d6+6:

Other methods are common enough to mention.  This includes 2d6+6 six times, 3d6 reroll 1s, 4d4+4, 3d6 as a 6x6 matrix and picking the best, and the list goes on and on.  I'll include some of those in the chart below but the end results is that most of those work out statistically close enough to the three main methods I presented above to not be tremendously significant. So at the end of the day there are three groupings of sigifican random methods.  The first is highly random with center range midpoint (i.e. 3d6), meaning you get mostly plain abilities with one or two high and low bonus scores.  The second provides much more concentration center, with a slightly higher chance of positive bonus scores (i.e. 3d6 7x-k6). The last group produces bonus scores, with one high bonus and very few weaknesses (4d6 k3)

### Break Down of Ranges

### The Most Common Results

3d6 (https://anydice.com/program/97b0)

## The Bounded Accuracy Problem

## Conclusion